---
icon: square
---

# Future Versions

<mark style="color:yellow;">Future Questfall features</mark> <mark style="color:orange;">after v1.0</mark>

While designing the Questfall system, we put many things aside, because they are not crucial for the basic functionality, but can take a lot of effort to work out their details or implementation. However, such functionality can be a huge boost for increasing and keeping the Questfall audience.

### Banner Pomotion

In order to increase the amount of QFTs burned and make Silver even more useful, authors will be able to promote their [Workspaces](../quest-mining/creation/workspaces.md) with the banner placed on the Quest Feed. Promoting the Workspace in this way can make it known to the community and increase the number of followers and quest completions.

Users can purchase a one-day banner slot with Silver to promote their Workspace. Slots will only be available for the next 30 days, and the farther away from the current day, the higher the price for the slot.

On the one hand, this guarantees that there will always be users willing to pay the price for promotion, as the price for upcoming days is low. On the other hand, as the demand for banner promotion grows, more users will be willing to pay for it and the slots will be filled further in the future.

### Donations

We want to allow users to support their favorite authors in the form of Silver donations. Such donations can give a huge boost to new authors who do not yet have a high reputation.

However, allowing Silver to circulate also creates potential threats. For example, a user could create a malicious quest on a junk account, report it from another account, receive Silver for the report, and then donate that Silver to an author. So we decided to leave this feature for later.

### Magic

In addition to common activities such as mining, crafting, and trading, the efficiency of which can be improved through items, we also want to introduce magic, which can have a significant impact on a user's strategy, as spells learned from spellbooks will be applied to the system itself rather than to a character.

{% hint style="info" %}
Spells are, in a sense, official hacks and can do almost anything in the system, from increasing the mining point reward for a particular quest to changing the overall website background color for everyone on the platform.
{% endhint %}

Implementing magic will not only add more variety to possible user strategies, but will also add much more to the system: the Magic character attribute, spellbooks, spells, mana. This will significantly increase the amount of RPG item types in loot boxes and the marketplace.

### Elixirs

While spells affect the environment, elixirs provide various temporary and permanent bonuses to the character itself. Therefore, elixirs can play a crucial role in the mining strategy.

{% hint style="info" %}
We have already developed a lot of elixir effects that are just waiting to be implemented.
{% endhint %}

In addition to making mining more varied, elixirs will also add much more diversity to loot boxes, allowing users to be rewarded with them more often.

### Warfare

Where there are quests and RPG, the next logical step is to implement combat.

{% hint style="info" %}
We developed a warfare concept (the same as magic) and almost included it in version 1.0, but finally decided to leave it for later.
{% endhint %}

The concept of Warfare is based on the idea of the strategic board game within Questfall, which requires a new type of RPG item - Warriors. This idea also assumes a new character attribute - Warfare, which determines the maximum number of Warriors a user can have on a game board (world map) at the same time.

The basic principle of Warfare is that the system generates additional mining points for miners (as a percentage of their mining results). These points are generated by the user's mines on the map. In this way, a user can take control of other people's mines and benefit from their work. Or users can protect their mines and receive additional mining points on top of Quest Mining.

### Clans

While we have not given much thought to clans, it is clear that communities within Questfall with shared goals, rankings, and clan-only activities can dramatically increase platform engagement.

For example, clans can focus on logic puzzles (or any other type of quest) and receive special bonuses for completing such quests. Or clans can create challenges in the form of quests for other users on the platform.&#x20;

Clans can also have storage for shared resources such as Essence or Gems, bonuses for trading in large quantities, and much more.&#x20;

But the most important role we expect clans to play is Warfare, where they can even have their own castles. However, clans cannot be well implemented until Warfare itself is up and running.

### Non-Binary Completions

The basic mechanic for quests in Questfall is that there is a minimum quality requirement that the quest completion must meet. Thus, the outcome of each completion is binary - either the completion is rewarded or it is not. And all completions are rewarded equally, with a base reward set by the quest author.

However, some tasks require the author to create a quest because he or she really needs to solve a particular problem. For example, it can be a web page design, or an article, or a music track, or a 3D model, etc. Since the author really needs only one design of the best quality for the web page, a leaderboard of the completions can be built, ordered by the quality rating done by the community.

Obviously, the rewards for users for such quests will not be the same and will depend on their place in the leaderboard.

As a result, the majority of tasks that are currently solved on freelance platforms can easily be completed on Questfall. Authors will get valuable work done for them in many variations arranged by the crowd, while they add value to the entire community by promoting quests and burning QFT.

### Internal Completions

Although the Questfall platform in its first version will not support the posting of any type of content except links and screenshots used as proof of quest completion, in future versions we intend to implement basic content types so that users can complete quests with creative content (such as text or images) within the Questfall itself.

This kind of completion is very complementary to non-binary completions, as it allows to create an analog to generative AI, since a user can create a quest to draw a certain picture or solve a math problem, and will get many variants from quest miners.

### API for Third-Party Projects

Currently, there is no common approach to building a community of real people in the crypto space. As a result, many projects suffer Sybil attacks at launch from multi-accounts and bots. By having a working sybil defense mechanism, Questfall can provide other projects with an automated means to build a community of real people, leaving multi-accounts and bots outside.

### Real-World Quests

The ultimate goal of Questfall is to create a full-fledged economy.

In this context, quests can be seen as contracts, which are the crucial part of any human interaction, since any activity or exchange is based on an agreement or some rules. The community moderation can play the role of a jury that decides whether the quest has been properly completed or not.

In this way, Questfall will allow to go out of the box of fiat economy and create its own system that is more fair and based on transparent rules.

However, the main problem with real world quests is witnessing the results of quest completion, as photos and even videos can be easily faked with AI nowadays. We are considering many different approaches for witnessing, from signing the photo or video with special hardware to witnessing through online video calls.

But when implemented, real-world quests will allow, for example, local quests where a worker who is not geographically far away can perform a specific task. This will make it possible to find a needed person nearby for any kind of work: babysitter, maid, construction worker, gardener, pool cleaner, etc.
